The future of innovation and advancements in mobile technology

Nowadays, mobile technology has developed a long way over the past decade as we can see for example from our mobile device. They were developing in many aspects since from the first day debut such as shape, size, capacity, style, appearance, feature, image/camera technology, artificial intelligence, processors, and function etc. Those all-integrated features will make our lives easier [3]. The significant changes are that the function and communication. The role of phone has changed since they can just only make calls. However, with the innovation of mobile technology, we can enjoy with many features of mobile devices like take a photo and record a video, send, and receive a message or emails, download the application that have difference kind of entertainment such as game, music, movie and other which is very convenient and comfortable.

Development in mobile technology is continuing to evolve and transforming in terms of connectivity, communication, and interaction thoroughly the world. The smartphone in around the next 10 years ahead, expected to be charged wirelessly over the air which have an expectation that the radio waves would be encouraged to support phone charging. The generation of technology has been developing every decade, 5G technology is present use of mobile connectivity [1]. However, in 2030, 6G technology would be expected to be released for mobile devices around the world, which will support complexity devices. Nonetheless, it’s true to say that Artificial Intelligence (AI) plays an important role in the present and will be more capability in the next decade, the artificial intelligence of the future can make a complexity including making decisions like humans. It could be the center of smart devices such as entertainment, cars connection even more home automation systems, making restaurant reservations and other things that humans can do in daily life.

Trending in the mobile tech industry is constantly developing due to the advancement of technology. [2] There are roles that become more experts such as Mobile App Developers and UX/UI designers include mobile security expert, AR/VR developers, IoT developer and Mobile Data Analysts. While some roles may become obsolete, for example, basic mobile phone repair, legacy mobile skills, manual testing, some mobile hardware manufacturing. However, job relevance can vary rapidly because of tech dynamics. Professionals in this field should learn and update new knowledge and skills that are continuously developed for up-to-date knowledge to adapt to job requirements.

Reference

[1] Carolina, D. M. (2022, April 7). The future of the smartphone: In 2030 phones could be charged by thin air. https://www.techadvisor.com/article/746167/the-future-of-the-smartphone-in-2030-phones-could-be-charged-by-thin-air.html
[2] Dhruv, J. (2023, September 4). The Future of Mobile App Development: Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR) Use Cases and Trends https://quokkalabs.com/blog/augmented-reality-and-virtual-reality-in-mobile-app-development/ 
[3] Tecno (2020, March 5). Smartphone innovation in the third decade of the 21st century https://www.technologyreview.com/2020/03/05/905500/smartphone-innovation-in-the-third-decade-of-the-21st-century/
